---
layout: page
title: Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /cv/
---

## Education

---

-  PhD, Geochemistry, University of Maryland, College Park (supervised by Williams F. McDonough and Roberta L. Rudnick)  `2011 - 2016`

- B.A., Geochemistry, Nanjing University (supervised by Xiao-Lei Wang)  `2007 - 2011`



## Research Experience

---

- Graduate research assistance at the University of Maryland, USA  `2012 - 2016`

- Undergraduate research assistance at Nanjing University, China  `2009 - 2011`

## Teaching Experience 

---

- High temperature geochemistry, teaching assistant  `Sep - Dec, 2011`

- Physical geology, teaching assistant  `Feb - May 2012`

- Climate change, teaching assistant  `Feb - May 2015`

## Research Award

---

- GSA graduate research grant ($3,500)  `2014`

- Jena outstanding graduate paper cup award ($9,000)  `2014`

- Ann G. Wylie Dissertation fellowship ($10,000)  `2015`

- Graduate School Summer Research fellowship ($5,000)  `2015`

- Goldschmidt student grant ($1,900)  `2015`

## Service

---

- "Maryland Day" volunteer

- Reviewed papers for Elements, GCA

## Publications

---

#### 2016

**Tang, M.**, McDonough, F.W., Rudnick, L.R. (201X). Europium anomaly in the MORB source mantle. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, in revision

**Tang, M.**, Chen, K., Rudnick, L.R. (2016). Archean upper crust transition from mafic to felsic marks the onset of plate tectonics. Science, 351(6271), 372-375.

#### 2015

**Tang, M.**, Arevalo, R. Jr., Goreva, Y., McDonough, F.W. (2015). Elemental fractionation during condensation of plasma plumes generated by laser ablation: a ToF-SIMS study of condensate blankets. Journal of Analytical Atomic spectrometry, 30(11), 2316-2322.

Sauzeat, L., Rudnick, R.L., Chauvel, C., Garçon, M. and **Tang, M.** (2015) New perspectives on the Li isotopic composition of the upper continental crust and its weathering signature. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 428, 182-191.

**Tang, M.**, Rudnick, L.R., McDonough, F.W., Gaschnig, R.M., Huang, Y. (2015). Europium anomalies constrain the mass of recycled lower continental crust. Geology, 43(8), 703-706.

## 2014

**Tang, M.**, Rudnick, L.R., Chauvel, C. (2014). Sedimentary input to the source of Martinique lavas: a Li perspective. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 144, 43-58.

**Tang, M.**, McDonough, F. W., Arevalo, R., Jr. (2014) High-precision measurement of Eu/Eu* in geological glasses via LA-ICP-MS analysis. Journal of Analytical Atomic spectrometry, 29(10), 1835-1843.

**Tang, M.**, Wang, X. L., Shu, X. J., Wang, D., Yang, T., & Gopon, P. (2014). Hafnium isotopic heterogeneity in zircons from granitic rocks: Geochemical evaluation and modeling of “zircon effect” in crustal anatexis. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 389, 188-199.

## 2012

**Tang, M.**, Wang, X. L., Xu, X. S., Zhu, C., Cheng, T., & Yu, Y. (2012). Neoproterozoic subducted materials in the generation of Mesozoic Luzong volcanic rocks: Evidence from apatite geochemistry and Hf–Nd isotopic decoupling. Gondwana Research, 21(1), 266-280.

Wang, X. L., Shu, X. J., Xu, X., **Tang, M.**, & Gaschnig, R. (2012). Petrogenesis of the Early Cretaceous adakite-like porphyries and associated basaltic andesites in the eastern Jiangnan orogen, southern China. Journal of Asian Earth Sciences, 61, 243-256.

Wang, X. L., Shu, L. S., Xing, G. F., Zhou, J. C., **Tang, M.**, Shu, X. J., ... & Hu, Y. H. (2012). Post-orogenic extension in the eastern part of the Jiangnan orogen: Evidence from ca 800–760Ma volcanic rocks. Precambrian Research. 222–223, 404–423.

